<archival>

The end goal for semester one, is to showcase a complete modeled and simulated prototypes which can maneuver through a rocky, coarse environment yet also on soft desert like terrain. Our project is broken down into modules and submodules as expected. We will showcase different modules/prototype we will progress through this semester and finalized concept which we will begin development in semester 2. There are three main goals we plan on accomplishing. These are the following, motion control, obstacles detection, and reorientation mechanism. When these three goals are solved with successful testing our solution will meet the need for this problem we are working on.  

Observe to see the following diagram for the objective diagram. In this diagram you'll see how these goals are broken down and integrate with other main goal. As a whole this is our system that we plan on implementing on the Mars Rover Rotary project. 

									< objective diagram> 

Each of these goals are essentially systems. For here and forth we will prescribe goals as systems, objectives and subsystems.
In achieving the motion control system, there are few main objectives that need to be assessed. Firstly power management, how successfully can we delegate power distribution in order to avoid energy loss. Motor Control, there are quite the amount of motors involved with a rover build. Dictating the motor control is a subsystem that is avoidable for a sophisticated build. The following two objectives require integration with another system. Bogi system analysis, is integrated with the reorientation mechanism, this subsystem responses to any rollover configuration or optimization problem for terrain maneuvering. Obstacle avoidance, integrated with obstacle detection allows the motors to be configured in such way that will prevent crashing.
To achieve a successful obstacle detection system the following are the main objectives that need to be assessed. 3D coverage mapping, utilizing sensors and laser mapping the goal here is achieve a successful mapping of near bound objects. In integration with Motion system we have the Obstacle avoidance. The obstacle avoidance subsystem will receive data on what path to take in order to avoid any inbound object or terrain elevation from the Obstacle Detection system. 
To achieve a reliable robust and cost efficient mechanism that will successfully be able to reorient the rover, the following objectives will allow us to move towards a finalizing decision in regards to the main development. Simulation, Utilizing different software packages we are developing variations of the prototype and accelerating our design analysis feedback. Gyroscope feedback, is a subsystem of the reorientation mechanism which will detect the coordinates of the rover in respect with the world coordinate system. When there is any deviation in the system this would be considered and error which the motion system will mitigate.   
